\chapter{Introduction}

Hi, there! This is a textbook explaining the basic notions in pure
mathematics. If you want to jump in, go to \cref{propositions}.

First of all, what is ``pure mathematics''. A simple definition is
``math that is not applied''. However, that is misleading, because it
might lead you to think that pure mathematics isn't applicable to the
real world. In most cases, pure math is applicable to the real
world.\footnote{That said, in many of those cases, the applications
  have yet to be discovered.} However, when you study pure math, you
usually study it because the math is interesting, not because it's
useful.

\section{Motivations and Ideology}

In American high schools, mathematics is approached as a tool for
computation, and it's almost always studied in the context of real
life applications. This is even true of most low-level university
courses.

In my experience, this usually leads people to think that math is
difficult and boring. Math can be difficult, but if you look at it the
right way, it's definitely not boring.

It's only in the second half of an undergraduate math track that most
students are immersed in pure mathematics. Part of this process is
usually students going back and re-learning all of the stuff they
learned in high school and early college, because they didn't learn it
with enough mathematical rigor. This means that high school and the
first half of college are usually a complete waste of math students'
time.

\subsection{Target audience}

I am of the opinion that, if you just learn mathematics correctly the
first time through, it will be a lot easier. This book contains
elementary mathematics taught ``correctly''. I put that in quotation
marks because I'm sure someone will disagree with me. Mathematics is a
subject that becomes easier to understand the more you look into it.

The book currently goes over basic propositional logic, set theory,
and function theory. I eventually want to expand it to go over
arithmetic in a rigorous and fun way.

\section{Contributing}

You are welcome---and encouraged---to contribute to this book. The
\LaTeX\ source for the book is on GitHub
\barelink{https://github.com/pharpend/sets-logics}, if you want to
make changes. You can also email the author at
\monospace{<peter.harpending@utah.edu>} if you find an error, or are
confused about something.

This book is free (as in ``unrestricted'') and open-source. It's also
``free'' in the sense that you don't have to pay for it, although
that's far less important.  The official license is the Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. The full license text
can be found at
\barelink{https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/}.

You are encouraged to send your modifications back so others can use
them. You are also encouraged to publish modified versions under the
same license.

\section{Conventions}

Definitions, theorems, axioms, etc are numbered so they can be found
quickly. If I refer to ``definition X.Y.Z'', that means, the Zth
definition, in chapter X, section Y. Definitions, theorems, axioms,
etc. all use the same counter. For instance,

\begin{definition}
  Here's a definition!
\end{definition}

\begin{example}
  Here's an example.
\end{example}

\begin{axiom}
  Here's an axiom.
\end{axiom}
